
#Physics
#Classicsal_Mechanics
#Lewin
#Star
#Neutron_Star
#Black_Hole
#white_Dwarf


# At the end of stars
Created:2022-12-27 22-54

In previous section we talked about angular momentum and how to calculate a bunch of particles. We saw the internal force don't cause a torque and changing angular momentum. Now we pay to mechanism that happens in star.
Inside the star is furnace. Nuclear fusion is going on and that produces heat and pressure which wants to expand the star. But gravity says: No! You can't do that. 
After the nuclear furnace has been completely consumed. There are three end products of the dead star. That is leftover:
> **White dwarf**   $R=10^4 \quad M= 0.5 m_{sun} \quad \rho =10^6 \; g/cm^3$
> **Neutron star**  $R=10 \quad M= 1.5 m_{sun} \quad \rho =10^{14} \; g/cm^3$
> **Black hole**  $R=0 \quad M>3 m_{sun} \quad \rho =\infty \; g/cm^3$

Look! There is a huge gap different radius between white dwarf and neutron star. Is there nothing in between? 
**The answer lies in quantum mechanics and general relativity.**

## Which will be happened?
It depends on the mass of the progenitor of the star that collapsed when the fuel is gone. In order to form a neutron star, you would have to start with star of probably at least ten solar masses, maybe even more. But our sun ultimately become a white dwarf.
# After collapsing stars
When a star collapses two things happen. First of all, there is a huge amount of gravitational potential energy that is released in the form of kinetic energy and then heat and all of sort of radiations. When the stuff falls in, we call it gravitational collapse. And the second thing that will be happened is the star will be rotated faster due to conservation angular momentum.

## References:
-  8.01x physics, MIT course ware, Walter Lewin, Lecture 20

## Related:
- [[8.01 2022-12-27 18-16 Su Angular momentum]]
- [[8.01 2022-12-27 11-37 Su Neutron Stars]]