
#Physics
#Classical_Mechanics
#NewtonS_law
#Lewin


# Newton's law
Created:2022-09-02 11:10
## 1. Newton's first law
Is the earth an inertia frame? No, calculate the centripetal acceleration. I assume the object is on the equator. This condition leads to the largest centripetal acceleration.
$$T = 24 \times 3600,\quad \quad R= 6400 km$$
$$a_{c}= v^{2}/r=\omega ^{2} r = 0.034 m/s^{2}$$
This amount is 300 times smaller than gravitational acceleration. And if you consider the motion of the earth around the sun, this additional factor is five times lower than gravitational acceleration.

## 1.1 Proof or Belief?
Can we prove first newton's law? No, because that's impossible to be sure that your reference frame is without any accelerations.
Do we believe that? Yes, because all experiments within uncertainties measurement are consistent with the first law.
## 2. Newton's second law
I summarize this in
$$F = ma$$
you can do common experience, spring-mass, with different masses for testing above law. Wait! How do we measure mass for this experience? Do I need to know force? Is it some kind of circular argument? No.
Mass is how many I have atoms or molecules. Imagine you are in another space without gravity. You have two pieces of cheese with same size and without a hole. They have equal mass. Now, if you make twice the size of one cheese, the mass would be twice.

# 2.1 Belief?
Do we believe that? Yes, because all experiments within uncertainties measurement are consistent with the two law.

## References:
8.01x physics, MIT course ware, Walter Lewin, Lecture 6

