#Physics #Barton #Quantum #Schrodinger_Equation #Hamiltonian #commutator
# 2023-09-23 01-20 Su The general schrodinger equation, $\hat{x}, \hat{p}$ commutator
Created:2023-09-23 01-20

We had 
$$\quad i \hbar \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}=\hat{E} \psi \quad \hat{E}=\frac{\hat{P}^{2}}{2 m}$$
Schrodinger did obvious thing. He considered a potential.

potential $\equiv V(x, t)$

$$
\begin{aligned}
& E=\text{kin}+\text{pot} \\
& \hat{E}=? \overbrace\rightarrow^{\text { guess }}\quad \hat{E}=\frac{\hat{p}^{2}}{2 m}+V(x, t) \equiv \text { Hamiltonian } \equiv \hat{H}(\hat{p}, x)=\hat{H}
\end{aligned}
$$

most people don't say $\hat{E}$ is a potential operator. They say Hamiltonian

The Hamiltonian represents the energy expressed in terms of position and momentum.

$$
\begin{gathered}
i \hbar \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}=\hat{H} \Psi \\
i \hbar \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}=\left(-\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m} \frac{\partial^{2}}{\partial x^{2}}+V(x, t)\right) \Psi \quad \text{S.E}
\end{gathered}
$$

And maybe it sounds to you a little surprising that you multiply $V(x, t)$ by $\Psi$. But that's only way it could be a linear equation. It can not be $i\hbar\dfrac{\partial \Psi}{\partial t}=-\dfrac{h^2}{2m}\dfrac{\partial^2 \Psi}{\partial x^2}+V$. Because it is non-linear.
And we have realized that the structure of S.E is $\frac{d \Psi}{d t}$ is equal to an Energy operator times $\Psi$. The whole game of quantum mechanics is <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">inventing energy operators</mark>.

$V(x, t)$<mark style="background: #55C5B2;"> should be taught as an operator</mark> like

$$
\hat{x}= x \quad \hat{x} f(x)=x f(x)
$$

Operators: $\hat{p}, \hat{x}, \hat{H}=\frac{\hat{p}^{2}}{2 m}+V(\hat{x}, t)$

We mentioned the operators are associated or analogs of matrices. we could ask whether the order of multiplication matters or nor? And this is the way Heisenberg was lead to quantum mechanics. Schrodinger wrote Wave equation, Heisenberg looked at operators and commutation relations and between them. And It's another way of thinking of quantum mechanics.

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \hat{x} \hat{p} \phi-\hat{p} \hat{x} \phi=0 \text { ? } \\
& \hat{A} \hat{B} \phi=\hat{A}(\hat{B} \phi),(\hat{A}+\hat{B}) \phi=\hat{A} \phi+B \hat{\phi} \\
& \hat{x} \hat{p}-\hat{p} \hat{x}=i \hbar \\
& {[\hat{A}, \hat{B}]=\hat{A} \hat{B}-\hat{B} \hat{A} \quad \text { commutator of } \hat{A} \text { and } \hat{B}}
\end{aligned}
$$
we learned $[\hat{x}, \hat{P}]=i\hbar$ leads to uncertainty principle.


## References:
- From 23 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 23 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses

## Related:


