#Physics #Barton #Quantum 
# Wave for a particle
Created:2023-09-20 16-16

<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">شماره گزاری برای تابع های موج رو نکرپم</mark>
What is the wave? Now I am going to do an argument based on superposition and probability. Suppose plane wave in the $+X$ direction.

- $\sin(kx-\omega t)$
- $\cos(kx-\omega t)$
- $e^{i(kx-\omega t)}$
- $e^{-i(kx+\omega t)}$
Which one, either or couple of them or non of them
> Use superposition + vague notion of probability

I am going to build a wave with equal probability moves to the left and right.

For $(1)$
$$\sin(kx-\omega t)= 2\sin(kx)\cos(\omega t)$$
vanishes at $\omega t = \dfrac{\pi}{2},\dfrac{3\pi}{2},\dfrac{5\pi}{2}$ and probability vanishes. It's hold for $(2)$.
Now let's pay to $III$

$$e^{ikx-i\omega t}+e^{-ikx-i\omega t}$$

To get a wave that moves in the opposite direction we have to do $e^{-ikx}$. Because I can not change phase. always this energy 

ب<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">اید چک شو</mark> ننوشتم یک چیزی رو

This wave function never vanishes allover space. Because $e^{-i \omega t}$ is now a phase and the phase is always non-zero. But this wave can vanishes at some point $Kx= \dfrac{\pi}{2},...$.  at this situation you cannot find the particle. It's better than $I,II$. Therefore $III$ is much better behaved than these things for superposition.


For $IV$
$$e^{-ikx}e^{i\omega t}+e^{ikx}e^{i\omega t}=2\cos(kx)e^{i\omega t}\;\;\;\; \text{good}$$


We cannot prove it is good at this point. we can only prove that you are not getting in trouble. Now which one $III$ or $IV$? Can I use both of them simultaneously? No!


Let's try 
$$e^{ikx-i\omega t}+e^{-i(kx-i\omega t)}=2\cos(kx-\omega t)$$

We have to choose one of them. and it is a matter of convention to choose one ef them.
> <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">make a choice</mark>
> $$\Psi(x,t)=e^{ikx-i\omega t}$$


the energy Part will always have a minus sign. It's the matter ware for a particle with $p=\hbar k$ and $E= \hbar \omega$! You want 3. D ?

$$\Psi(\vec{x},t)=e^{i\vec{k}.\vec{x}-\omega t}$$
and 
$$\vec{p}=\hbar \vec{k}$$
That's the beginning of quantum mechanics. It will be a deductive process to figure out what equation it satisfies.


## References:

- From 20 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 20 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses
## Related: