
#Physics
#Quantum
#harmonic_oscillator 


# Harmonic Oscillator
Created:2022-06-22 10:58

$$F=-kX=m\frac {d^{2}X}{dt^{2}}$$
$$\frac {d^{2}X}{dt^{2}}+\omega^2X=0 \quad where \quad\omega=\sqrt{\frac {k}{m}} \tag{1}$$

The potential energy is $$V(x)=\frac {1}{2}kX^2$$
It's clear we have not thing that treat ideal harmonic oscillator. Every potential has parabola shape. you can do it easily with Taylor expansion: 
$$V(x)=\frac {1}{2}V'(x_{0})(x-x_{0})^2$$
Now we go through and we will pay to Schrodinger time-independent time
$$\frac {-h^2}{2m} \frac {d^2\psi}{dx^2}+\frac {1}{2}m\omega^2x^2\psi=E\psi \tag{2}$$
we  can rewrite this with operator:
$$\frac {1}{2m}\left[\hat{p}^2+(m\omega x)^2 \right]\psi=E\psi \tag{3}$$

where $\hat{p}=-ih\frac {\partial}{\partial x}$, I factor the Hamiltonian
$$\hat{H}=\frac {1}{2m}[\hat{p}^2+(m\omega x)^2] \tag{4}$$
When you look at right hand $(4)$, it evokes us to write this another way $(11)$(why? because it is like $z^2=zz^{*}$ in complex number). You notice in complex number we have commute but here it's not easy. Let $z=x+iy$
$$(x+iy)*(x-iy)=x^2+y^2-ixy+iyx$$

these last second sentences can not cancel each other. We have operator. And it is another story any way let's do that. We define $\hat{a}_{+}$,$\hat{a}_{-}$
$$\hat{a}_{\pm}=\frac {1}{\sqrt{2\hbar m \omega}}(\mp i\hat{p}+m\omega x)\tag{5}$$
Now we start with the $\hat{a}_{-}\hat{a}_{+}$
$$\hat{a}_{-} \hat{a}_{+}=\frac{1}{2 \hbar m \omega}\left[\hat{p}^{2}+(m \omega x)^{2}\right]-\frac{i}{2 \hbar}[x, \hat{p}] \tag{6}$$

$$[x, \hat{p}]=i \hbar \tag{7}$$
Relation $(7)$ is called **canonical commutation relation**. Now we can express left side of (6) with $\hat{H}$. 
$$\hat{H}=\hbar \omega\left(\hat{a}_{-} \hat{a}_{+}-\frac{1}{2}\right) \tag{8} $$
Ditto we could start with $\hat{a}_{+}\hat{a}_{-}$
$$\hat{a}_{+} \hat{a}_{-}=\frac{1}{\hbar \omega} \hat{H}-\frac{1}{2} \tag{9}$$
$${\left[\hat{a}_{-}, \hat{a}_{+}\right]=1 }\tag{10}$$
$$\hbar \omega\left(\hat{a}_{\pm} \hat{a}_{\mp} \pm \frac{1}{2}\right) \psi=E \psi \tag{11}$$
Now I claim that:
>Every function that satisfies equation $(2)$ with energy $E$ (it means $\hat{H}\psi=E\psi$), then $\hat{a}_{+}\psi$ will satisfy the time-independent Schrodinger equation with energy $E+\hbar \omega$ ($\hat{H}(\hat{a}_{+}\psi)=(E+\hbar \omega)(\hat{a}_{+}\psi)$).

Then I can go to a level with more energy and so on. Also back to level with low energy. Wait! is right? Can I go to $E<0$? No, there is a bound. $\hat{a}_{-}\psi$ is a solution of Schrodinger equation, but there is no guarantee, that would be normalizable. It may be zero or square integral be infinity. In practice former, There is a "lowest rung". Call it $\psi_{0}$.

## References
- Griffith, Introduction to quantum mechanics, chapter 2

##  Related
- [[8.04 2022-06-28 21-14 Su Solution of Harmonic Oscillator by brute force]]