#Physics #Quantum #Barton 
# Galilean transformation of ordinary wave
Created:2023-09-3 17-36

$$\text{phase}\equiv \phi =  kx-\omega t$$

$\phi$ is Galilean invariant. What it means is that two people looking at this wave and they look at the point on this wave, both people will agree on the value of the phase.
So If you have a place where the wave has a maximum or a phase where the wave is $O$. This is an ordinary wave. Everybody would agree that at that place you have a maximum and that place you have zero.
$$X'=X-vt$$

$$\phi=k(X-\underbrace{\dfrac {\omega}{k}}_{\text{velocity of the wave}}t)=\dfrac {2\pi}{\lambda}(X-vt)=\underbrace{\dfrac {2\pi}{\lambda}}_{K}X-\underbrace{\dfrac {2\pi v}{\lambda}}_{\omega}t$$
## Ordinary waves and Galilean transformation

$S'$ should see the same phase as $S$
$$\phi'=\phi \quad \text{when reffering to the same point and same point}$$
$$\phi'=\phi = \dfrac {2\pi}{\lambda}(X-vt)=\dfrac {2\pi}{\lambda}(X'+vt'-Vt')=\underbrace{\dfrac {2\pi}{\lambda}}_{K'}X'-\underbrace{\dfrac {2\pi}{\lambda}V(1-\dfrac {v}{V}}_{\omega'})t'$$
it concludes:
$$\omega'=\omega(1-\dfrac {v}{V})$$
$$K'=K \Rightarrow \lambda'=\lambda \quad \text{for ordinary waves}$$
## Conclusion

- ** $\Psi$ are not directly measurable.**
Because if you had a quantity for which you could measure like a sound wave, they should agree between different observables.
$\Psi$  is not directly measurable not all of $\Psi$ Can be measured. Some of $\Psi$ can be measured (9:28). And you are already. heard the hints of that. Because we said any number that you multiply, you cannot measure it, and in the phase that you multiply you cannot measure it. So Complex number can't be measured.

* **They are not Galilean invariant.**





## References:
- From 15 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 15 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:



