#Physics #Quantum #wave_function #Normalization #Hermitian #Barton 
#  Is probability conserved? Hermiticity of the Hamiltonian
Created:2024-01-04 10-30

> Main check: If $\int dx \;|\Psi|^2 =1$ at $t_0$. it must hold for $t>t_0$. I could say $t \neq t_0$.

Define:
$$\underbrace {\rho(x,t)}_\text{probability density}=\Psi^*(x,t)\Psi(x,t)$$
$$N(t)= \int dx\; \rho(x,t) \;\; \text{and} \;\; N(t_0)=1$$
> Question: Will the Schrodinger equation that $\dfrac {dN}{dt}=0$? 

$$\dfrac {dN}{dt}= \int dx \; \dfrac {\partial \rho(x,t)}{\partial t}=\int dx \; [\dfrac {\partial \Psi^*}{\partial t}\Psi + \Psi^*\dfrac {\partial \Psi}{\partial t}] \tag {1}$$
Recall Schrodinger equation is:
$$\dfrac {\partial \Psi}{\partial t} = -\dfrac {i}{\hbar}\hat{H}\Psi\tag{2}$$
We can calculate conjugate of $(2)$:
$$\dfrac {\partial \Psi^*}{\partial t} = \dfrac {i}{\hbar}(\hat{H}\Psi)^*\tag{3}$$

Put $(2)$ and $(3)$ in $(1)$, and we obtain: 
$$\dfrac {dN}{dt}=\int dx \; \dfrac {i}{\hbar}(\hat{H}\Psi)^*\Psi-\Psi^*(\hat{H}\Psi) \tag{4}$$
Are we going to be able to show that simply that do a lot of  algebra and say, oh, it's zero? It's kind of going to work that way. But we are going to do work and we are going to get to $\dfrac {dN}{dt}$  being integral of Something. And it's just not ate going to look like zero, but it will be manipulated in such a way that you can argue it's zero using the boundary condition. 

We need this for $(4)$ be zero
$$\int dx \; (\hat{H}\Psi)^*\Psi=\int dx \;\Psi^*(\hat{H}\Psi) \tag{5}$$
and this would warranty to $\dfrac {dN}{dt} =0 \Rightarrow N=cte\xRightarrow{N(t_0)=1}N=1$  $\checkmark$
$(5)$ is true if $\hat{H}$ is Hermitian operator. A Hermitian $\hat{H}$ would actually satisfy

$$\text{condition of Hermicity}\;\;\;\int dx \; (\hat{H}\Psi_1)^*\Psi_2=\int dx \;\Psi_1^*(\hat{H}\Psi_2) \tag{6}$$
If $\Psi_1 = \Psi_2$ $(6)$ gives $(5)$.

How do I even understand that $(6)$? What allows me to move the It $\hat{H}$ from one side to the other? we will see it very soon. But if's the fact that it has second derivatives and maybe you can integrate them by parts and move the derivatives from $\Psi_1$ to $\Psi_2$. 

But you should try to structurally, what Kind of objects you have? what kind of properties you have? And the objects are this operator, that controls the time evolution, and if I want probability interpretation  to make sense we need $(5)$ which is a consequence of hermiticity.

In general, given an operator $T$, one defines the its Hermitian conjugate $T^\dagger$
$$\int\Psi_1^\ast(T\Psi_2)=\int(T^\dagger\Psi_1)^\ast\Psi_2$$
$T$ is Hermitian if $$T^\dagger=T$$

## References:
-  From 27 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 27 prof.Barton- Lecture 6 PDF file- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:



