#Physics #wave_function #Quantum #Barton 
# Interpretation of the wave function
Created:2024-01-04 08-01

## Max Born vs Schrodinger & Albert

Schrodinger thought that $\Psi$ represents particles that disintegrate You have a wave function, and the wave function spread all over space. So the particle has distinguished completely

> More $\Psi$ $\rightarrow \;$More particle is there

Max Born solved S.E for a particle that hits a coulomb potential then they found the wave function falls off $\dfrac {1}{r^2}$. "But we did experiment, the particle choose a way and it goes one way and when you measure it, you get the full particle. particle never disintegrate", Mar Born said.

Max Born said $\Psi$ doesn't tell how much of the particle $m$ at $x$ at time $t$, But rather what's the probability to find it at $x$ at time $t.$

> $$ \boxed{\underbrace {dp(x,t_0)}_{Probability\; of\; find \;at \;x\; at\; time\; t_0,\; within\; cube.}=|\Psi(\vec{x},t_0)|^2\;d^3x}$$

 If you have a single particle It better be $$\int_{over\; space}d^3x\;|\Psi(\vec{x},t_0)|^2 =1 \tag{*}$$
But maybe, there is some difficulties. You wrote Schrodinger equation, and it tells you how $\Psi$ evolves in time. Suppose you have  $\Psi$ all over space at $t_0$. Schrodinger equation determines $\Psi$ for any time. So knowing in specific time, it gives wave function for other time. So we could run into problem. If  the integral $*$ be one, you can not force this integral be one in other time. Because the wave function now is determined by the Schrodinger equation. In the next section we pay to it.

## References:
- From 25 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 25 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:



