# 1 Linear and nonlinear theories
Created:2023-08-14 21-16


- Einstein's theory of relativity $\rightsquigarrow$ very nonlinear.
- Electromagnetism theory $\rightsquigarrow$ linear

## 1.1 How about classical mechanics?

Newton Could Solve the two bodies problem. But he couldn't solve the three bodies problem. Already with three bodies, you can not superpose, solutions that you get with two bodies. Let me show

Motion in 1D:
$$m \dfrac {d^2X}{dt^2} = - V'(x)$$
$V' \equiv$ derivative of $V$ w.r.t (with respect to) argument.

left side of $(1)$ is linear but right side isn't. Because $V$ is arbitrary.

## 1.2 what about quantum mechanics?

$\Psi$ is wave function (depends on time, ...)
$$i\hbar \dfrac {\partial \Psi}{\partial t}=\hat{H}\Psi$$
$\hat{H} \equiv$ Hamiltonian and it's linear operator.

$$L\Psi = 0 \tag{S.E}$$
due to linearity, QM is Simpler than classical.


Maybe one particle has several wave functions and that happens. When you have a particle with spin.

I want to back $\Psi(X,t)$. Sometimes I want to remain an object in 3D and then $\Psi(\vec{X},t)$. And notice When I locked an electron and I want to Know the physics of that electron, position is not relevant. Its spin is relevant. And then you may need more than one wave function, one describing the spin up and another for Spin down.


## 1.2.1 Funny thing about $\Psi$

The funny thing when Schrodinger wrote the equation. People
asked What is $\Psi$? And he said I don't know,

No physical interpretation for the wave function was obvious for the people that invented quantum mechanics. it took a few month for max Born said it hes to do with probabilities.


## References:

## Related:



