#Unresolved_Case 

- [ ] This topics related to [[8.04 2022-06-21 06-06 Su Wave Function]]. Is true that wave function and its derivatives is zero at x goes to infinity? 
Consider this wave function $\Psi$, this function goes to zero at infinity, however its derivative approaches to $c \cos x^2$.
$$\Psi = \dfrac{c \sin x^2}{\sqrt{x^2+1}}$$
Another explanation for vanishing wave function and its derivatives is: **there won't be an effect on our experience by this occurring at infinity**.

There are situations where it's useful to drop this assumption, though. For example, if you're analyzing a crystal lattice, it makes the calculations easier to assume the lattice extends infinitely far in all directions, and in that case you would use a wave function which is periodic all the way out to infinity. Of course, such wave functions usually have nonzero values in addition to nonzero derivatives at large $| x |$. I don't know of an example offhand which would use a wave function which asymptotes to zero but whose derivatives don't, though it wouldn't surprise me at all to learn of one.
Another point is about analyzing lattice crystals.

- [ ] How to compute expectation value for quantities. I mean is this right $$\langle p \rangle = m \dfrac {d}{dt} \langle x \rangle =  m \langle \dfrac {dx}{dt} \rangle$$ I know, I must check Leibniz theorem, but is possible for every quantity? If no, what is definition of dependent quantities? 
*Answer: No. use Leibniz and will see a contrast between equality. In my view you can't substitute quantity  with classical quantity in $\langle \rangle$. It's clear you are not allowed to put $\langle v \rangle = \langle \dfrac {dx}{dt}\rangle$. You are just allowed $\langle v \rangle =\dfrac {d}{dt}\langle x \rangle$ 


- [ ] $$ m \langle \dfrac {dx}{dt} \rangle \neq\langle p \rangle = m \dfrac {d}{dt} \langle x \rangle$$
But it will be true if wiggle factors cancel each other in product.