---
aliases: 
- 
tags:
- Physics
- Quantum
- Schrodinger
- Wave_Function
---

# Importance of separation solutions of Schrodinger equation
Created:2022-11-04 08:42

- **They are stationary state. It's clear wave function is depend on time.**$$\Psi = \psi(x)e^{-iEt/\hbar}$$ But the probability density is unchangeable.
$$\lvert\Psi\rvert^2=\Psi^{*}\Psi=\psi^{*} e^{iEt/\hbar}\psi(x)e^{-iEt/\hbar}=\psi^{*}\psi=\vert \psi \vert^{2}$$
   The same thing happens for calculating expectation value of dynamical variables. $Q$ is unchangeable in time.
$$<Q(x,p)> = \int dx \;\psi^{\star}[Q(x,-i\hbar \frac {d}{dx})]\psi$$

- **They are states of definite total energy.** In classical mechanics, the total energy (kinetic plus potential) is called the Hamiltonian: $$H(x,p) = \dfrac{p^2}{2m}+V(x)$$ The operator corresponds to Hamiltonian will be obtained with canonical substitution  $p \to -i\hbar(\dfrac {\partial}{\partial x})$
$$\hat{H}=-\frac {\hbar^2}{2m} \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2}+V(x)$$
Now  actually I rewrite $(2)$ with operator: $$\hat{H} \Psi=E\;\Psi \tag{3}$$
$$\langle H \rangle = \int dx \; \Psi^*\; \hat{H}\; \Psi =E \int dx \;\Psi^*\;\Psi=E$$
You can calculate variance and will see:
$$\sigma_{H}^2=0$$
**A separable solution has the property that every measurement of the total energy is certain to return the value $E$.** In additional $E$ for separation solutions should be real not complex. Otherwise it wouldn't be normalizable.

- **The general solution is a linear combination of separable solutions.** Let $\psi_{1}$, $\psi_{2}$, $\cdots$, $\psi_{n}$ are solutions of the time-independent each of them associated with $E_{1}$, $E_{2}$, $\cdots$, $E_{n}$
$$\Psi(x,t)=\sum_{n=1}^\infty c_{n}\psi_{n}(x)e^{-iE_{n}t/\hbar} \tag{3} $$

Let me recapitulate. You start with $V(x)$ and $\Psi(x,0)$. Your job is finding $\Psi(x,t)$ at another time. You should solve time-independent equation. Put $t=0$ in $(3)$ 
$$\Psi(x,0)=\sum_{n=1}^\infty c_{n}\psi_{n}(x)$$
and then determine $c_{n}$ with initial states. You can always do it. Now we have
$$\Psi(x,t)=\sum_{n=1}^\infty c_{n}\psi_{n}(x)e^{-iE_{n}t/\hbar}  = \sum_{n=1}^\infty c_{n}\Psi_{n}(x)\tag{4}$$
what do $c_{n}$s represent physically? You should wait, in this level I can say,**$\vert c_{n} \vert ^2$ is the probability measurement of the energy would return the value of $E_{n}$.**  Some people will tell you that $|c_n |^2$ is “the probability that the particle is in the nth stationary state,” but this is bad language: the particle is in the state $\Psi$, not $\Psi_{n}$ , and anyhow, in the laboratory you don’t “find the particle to be in a particular state,” you measure some observable, and what you get is a number, not a wave function. Now you should conclude 
$$\sum_{n=1}^\infty \vert c_{n}\vert^2 =1 \tag{5}$$
>It's very clear, you can arrive easily to $4$ by this fact that:$$
1=\int|\Psi(x, 0)|^2 d x=\int\left(\sum_{m=1}^{\infty} c_m \psi_m(x)\right)^*\left(\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} c_n \psi_n(x)\right) d x = \sum_{n=1}^{\infty}\left|c_n\right|^2$$Also this shows $c_n$ are independent of time (because it's true for arbitrary time.)

I back to definition of mean in calculus
$$<X> = \int dx \;x\;f(x) = \sum x\;f(x)$$
similarly we can calculate $<H>$ and regard to definition of $\vert c_{n} \vert^2$s:
$$<H> = \int dx \; \vert c_{n} \vert^2 \;E_{n}$$
Finally, because $c_{n}$s are independent of time, so too probability of getting a peculiar energy and too expectation of value $H$. Then they are manifestation of energy conservation in quantum mechanics. 

The separation solutions themselves are stationary. In the sense all of the probabilities and expectation values are independent of time. But this property is not shared by the general solutions.

**Hint from example** $2.1$
> Linear combinations of stationary states (with different energy) can produce motion.

## References 

- Griffith, Introduction to quantum mechanics, chapter 2

## Related

- [[8.04 2022-11-04 08-50 Su Separation solution of Schrodinger equation]]



