
#Physics
#Quantum
#staistical_interpretation
#unresolved_case
# Normalization
Created:2022-10-15 12:21

## Why is it important?
I return to [[8.04 2022-09-05 15-35 Su THE STATISTICAL INTERPRETATION]], we say $\Psi^2(x,t)$ is the probability of finding particle at $x$ at time $t$. 
$$
\int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}|\Psi(x, t)|^2 d x=1
$$
without this condition all of interpretation would be nonsense. Because Schrodinger is linear equation, if $\Psi(x,t)$ is a solution, then $A\Psi(x,t)$ is another ($A$ is complex number). 
Physically realizable states correspond to the square-integrable solution to Schrodinger's equation.  But wait a minute! **If we normalize at  $t=0$  then, Would be normalize at another time?** Fortunately yep. It's a trait of Schrodinger equation. Schrodinger equation has a remarkable property that it preserve normalization without this trait, all of statistical interpretation would be nonsense.
$$
\frac{d}{d t} \int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}|\Psi(x, t)|^2 d x=0
$$
**Do once and then come on.**
When you try to prove the above relation,  you should assume $\Psi(x,t)$ goes to zero at infinity, otherwise $\Psi(x,t)$ would not be normalizable. As a mathematician, I am able to construct any function I wish. At infinity, I can construct a function that does not go to zero, and that is normalizable. There are no pathological counterexamples in physics. For us $\Psi(x,t)$ and its derivatives go to zero at infinity. 

## References:
- Griffith, Introduction to quantum mechanics, chapter 1

## Related
- [[8.04 2022-09-05 15-35 Su THE STATISTICAL INTERPRETATION]]
- Unresolved case