
#Physics
#Quantum
#Energy-Eigenstate
#Energy_Eigenvalue




# Energy Eigenstate- Lecture 7
Created:2022-06-27 14:43
## summarize
In this lecture, Prof. Adams outlines how to use energy eigenfunctions to conveniently solve quantum mechanical problems involving time evolution. He then discusses various properties and features of energy eigenfunctions and their superpositions.


## Recall
I
$$(f|g)=\int_{-\infty}^\infty dx \; f^{*}g\tag{1}$$
II
$$\hat{X}\phi_{x_{0}}(x_{0})=x_{0}\phi_{x_{0}}(x)\tag{2}$$
$$\hat{P}\phi_{k}(x)=\hbar k \phi_{k}(x)\tag{3}$$
$$\hat{E}\phi_{n}=E_{n}\phi_{n}\tag{4}$$
We can associate observable to operators, operators come with special functions, the eigenfunctions, those eigenfunctions corresponding to have a definite value of the observable and they are orthogonal.

III
$$\Psi(x) = \int dx_{0} \; \delta(x-x_{0})\Psi(x_{0})$$
$$=\int dk \; \frac {1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} e^{ikx}\hat{\Psi}(k)$$
$$=\sum_{n}\phi_{n}c_{n}$$
This tell us (this is the statement of the spectral theorem) any function can be expanded in a basis of states with definite values of some observable. Given any physical observable, a given wave function can be expanded as some superposition of having definite values pf that.

## Eigenvalues, discrete or continues or both?
Sometimes energy eigenvalues is discrete (like particle at infinite well) sometimes they are continues (like free particle $V=0$). When you bound for a particle it's discrete and it's continues when particle can get far away arbitrarily. But look sometimes we have both (discrete and continues) like in Hydrogen (stuck and excited mode).

### Is importance phase? can we ignore them at first?
Phase is superposition is not important but it's not mean you can drop phase from each part and then add together. You can sum together and finally drop from final result.

## References
- Introduction to quantum mechanics, MIT course ware, Allen Adams, Lecture 7

## Related
