#Physics #Quantum #wave_function #Barton 
# Necessity of complex number
Created:2023-08-14 22-36

$i$ is invented in order to solve such equations like $x^2 = -1$

Once you invent $i$, you don't need to invent more numbers. And you can solve every polynomial equation with just i.

so complex numbers that you use them in electromagnetism. and sometimes in classical mechanic. But you always use it in an auxiliary way. It was not directly relevant because the electricity field, velocity, etc <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">are real and the equations are real</mark>. on the other hand in quantum mechanics, the equation has an $i$. <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">You need complex numbers. They're not auxiliary.</mark> on the other hand you can never measure a complex number

# So what is the interpretation of $\Psi$?

Max Born then had the idea

$$\Psi \in \mathbb{C} \rightsquigarrow |\Psi|^2 \equiv \mathrm{probabilities}$$ 

So that was a great discovery and had a lot to do with development of quantum mechanics, many people hated this.

In fact Schrodinger himself hated it and his invention of the
Schrodinger cat was an attempt to show how ridiculous was the idea of thinking of these things as probabilities, But he was wrong. Einstein was wrong in that way. and many good physicist are wrong, They are not wrong for silly reasons. They are wrong for good reasons.

We can learn from their thinking. Like EPR (Einstein-Pedlaski-Rosen) had an attempt to show quantum mechanics are wrong. the EPR paper itself was wrong but it brought up ideas that turned out



## References:
- From 3 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 3 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses
## Related:



