#Physics #Barton #Quantum 
# Momentum operator, energy operator and differential equation
Created:2023-09-21 12-40

So we have 

$$\Psi(\vec{x},t)=e^{i\vec{k}.\vec{x}-\omega t}$$
and 
$$\vec{p}=\hbar \vec{k} \;\;E=\hbar\omega$$
We could talk non-relativistic particles $E=\dfrac{p^2}{2m}$.
$\Psi$ is wave function for a free particle. And now I am going try to use this insight to figure out what is the equation that governs general wave functions. We have been led to this wave function by postulates of the de Broglie and experiments of Davisson and Germer and others that proves that pericles like 



electrons  have wave properties. You need to obtain this from some equation. And after having an equation you may get mere solution, It's useful for better Understanding. Now I try to figure out what is the equation? Probably a differential equation.

Now suppose you want to know momentum, probably you would say okay I pick $k$ from $e^{i(kx-\omega t)}$ and then $\hbar k$ gets p. Another way

$$\underbrace{\dfrac{h}{i}\dfrac{\partial}{\partial x}}_{\text{operator}} \Psi(x,t)=\hbar k \Psi=\underbrace{p}_{\text{number}}\Psi(x,t)$$

This operator: It could not be that acting on the wave function just gives a momentum. Because the exponential doesn't disappear after the differential operator acts.
$$\hat p=\dfrac{h}{i}\dfrac{\partial}{\partial x}$$
$$\underbrace{\hat p}_{\text{operato}} \underbrace{\Psi}_{\text{state}}=\underbrace{p}_{number}\underbrace{\Psi}_{\text{state}}\tag{1}$$
If $(1)$ holds then $\Psi(x,t)$ is an eigenstate of $\hat p$ with eigenvalue $p$.

> $\Psi(x,t)$ is a state of <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">definite</mark> momentum.

<mark style="background: #55C5B2;">It's important terminology, definite momentum means that if you measure it, you would find momentum. There would he no uncertainty on this measurement.</mark>

We can do similar things for the energy
$$i\hbar\dfrac {\partial}{\partial t}\Psi=E\Psi \tag{2}$$
But we can put more physics into this, because in a sense: because $(2)$
tells you how a wave function with energy $E$. What the time dependence of that wave function is.

But that were function, in our case, is a wave function of definite momentum. So somehow the information that is missing there is that the $E=\dfrac{p^2}{2m}$ چ<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">ک شود</mark>
Let's try to think of the energy as an operator. $2$ is more general
it's not interesting. Energy has a formula. We want to capture that.


invent $O$ such that $E \psi=O\psi$
$$
\begin{aligned}
E \Psi & =\frac{p^2}{2 m} \psi=\frac{p}{2 m}(p \psi)=\frac{p}{2 m} \frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x} \psi \\
& =\frac{1}{2 m} \frac{h}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}(p \psi)=\frac{1}{2 m} \frac{\hbar}{\partial x}\left(\frac{\partial}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x} \psi\right) \\
& \Rightarrow-\frac{\hbar^2}{2 m} \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} \Psi \\
\hat{E} & =\frac{\hbar^2}{2 m} \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} \Psi \\
\hat{E} \Psi & =E \Psi
\end{aligned}
$$
## References:

## Related: