# 2024-02-16 17:05 Su Time dependence of expectation values
Created:2024-02-16 17:05

It's a statement about the time dependence of the expectation valves. it's fundamental theorem.

$$
\begin{align*}
\frac{d}{d t}\langle\hat{Q}\rangle & =\frac{d}{d t} \int \psi^{*} Q \psi d x=\int[\underbrace{\frac{\partial \psi^{*}}{\partial t} Q}_{\text {Schrodinger equation }} \psi_{(x, t)} +\psi^{*} Q \frac{\partial \psi(x, t)}{\partial t}] d x  \tag{C}\\
& =\int d x\left(\frac{i}{\hbar}(\hat{H} \psi)^{*} Q \psi(x, t)-\frac{i}{\hbar} \psi^{*} Q \hat{H} \psi(x, t)\right)
\end{align*}
$$

Remember $\quad i \hbar \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}=\hat{H} \psi$

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \stackrel{\times i \hbar}{\Rightarrow} \quad i \hbar \frac{d}{d t}\langle Q\rangle=\int d x(\Psi^{*} Q \hat{H} \Psi-(\underbrace{(\hat{H}}_{\text {is Hermitian }} \Psi)^{*} Q \Psi \\&
\overset{\text{by Hermiticy}}{\underset{\text{on second terms}}{=}} \int d x\left(\Psi^{*} Q \hat{H} \Psi\left(\Psi^{*}\right)-\Psi^{*} H Q \Psi\right)
\end{aligned}
$$

What do we see? $QH$, $HQ$ it represents commutator:
$$i\hbar\frac{d}{d t}\langle Q\rangle=\int d x \psi^{*}(\underbrace{Q \hat{H}-\hat{H} Q}_{[Q, H]}) \Psi(x, t)$$
$\int d x \;\psi^{*}(Q \hat{H}-H Q) \Psi(x, t)$ is expectation value of $[Q, H]$ 
$$\boxed{i \hbar \frac{d}{d t}\langle Q\rangle=\langle[Q, H]\rangle}$$
This is actually a pretty important result. It has all the dynamics of the physics in the observables.

Wave functions change in time. Due to their change in time, the expectation value will change. Because
$$
\begin{aligned}
& \underbrace{\langle\hat{Q}\rangle}_{\text{Time depend }}=\int d x \;\Psi^{*}(x, t) \hat{Q} \Psi(x, t) \\
\end{aligned}
$$

But here what you have succeeded is to represent the change in time of the expectation value. The charge in time of the position that you expect you find your particle in terms of the expectation value of a commutator with a Hamiltonian.

So if Some quantity Commutes with a Hamiltonian, its expectation value will not change in time.
If $\hat{H}=\frac{\hat{P}}{2 m}, \hat{Q}=\hat{P}$, therefore $\hat{P}$ commutes with $\hat{H}$ and the expected value of the momentum will not change. So conservation laws in quantum mechanics have to do with things that commute with Hamiltonian.

## References:39

## Related:

