# widths and uncertainties
Created:2024-01-07 23:15

We go back to integral, $k=k_{0}+\tilde{k}$

$$
\Psi(x, 0)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} e^{i k_{0} x} \int d \tilde{k}\;\Phi\left(k_{0}+\tilde{k}\right) e^{i \tilde{k} x}
$$

We're doing this integral and we're focusing on the integration near $k_{0}$ where the contribution is large. So we write $k=k_{0}, \tilde{k}$. And why we do have to worry? We are going to be integrating $\tilde{k}$ all over the width of this profile. So the relevant region of integration for $\tilde{k}$ is $\left[-\frac{\Delta k}{2}, \frac{\Delta k}{2}\right]$.

<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">##> shape</mark>

Now as you vary this $\tilde{k}$, you're going to vary the phase $\left(e^{i \tilde{k} x}\right)$. And as the phase changes, well, there's some effect on $e^{i \tilde{k} x}$, But if $x$ is equal to zero, the phase is stationary because $\tilde{k}$ is going to vary, but $x=0$ There's no phase. Phase is stationary. And you will get a substantial answer.
But now think of the phase in general. So for any $x$ that you choose, the phase will range over some value.
for any $x \neq 0$ the phase in integral will range over $\left[-\frac{\Delta k}{2} x, \frac{\Delta k}{2} x\right]$
So as you do the integral, you have a nice, real, smooth function $(\Phi(k_0+\tilde{k}))$ and you have a running phase that you don't manage to make it stationary, Because when $x \neq 0$, this is not going to be stationary. But it's going to vary in $\left[-\frac{\Delta k}{2} x, \frac{\Delta k}{2} x\right]$.

So when you integrate over the peak, your phase is excursion is going be $\Delta kx$. But then that tells you what can happen as long as this total phase excursion is very small.

If $x$ is such that $\Delta k\;x\leqslant 1$ the you will get a contribution. And the reason is because the phase is not changing much when you're doing your integral. and the phase is not killing it.

Let's just extract the final conclusion from this thing. So $\Psi(x, 0)$ will be sizable in an interval $x \in\left[-x_{0}, x_{0}\right]$ for $\Delta k \;x_{0} \leqslant 1$

And therefore the uncertainty in $x$ would be given by $2 x_{0}=\Delta x$



## References:32

## Related:



