# 2024-01-10 13:35 Su Fourier transforms and delta functions
Created:2024-01-10 13:35

The subject is momentum space, were going to kind of discover the relevance of momentum space. We've been working with wave functions that tell you the probabilities for finding a particle in a given position and that's sometimes called coordinate space or position space.

As we 're been seeing with momentum, there's a very intimate relation between momentum and position. Today we're going to develop the ideas that lead you to think about momentum space in away that's quite complimentary to coordinate space

Then we will be able to talk about expectation values of operators and we're going to be moved Some steps into what is called interpretations of QM.

In the final part of the lecture, we will consider the time dependence of those expectation values, which is the idea of dynamics. If you want to understand haw your system evolves in time, the expectation values the things that you measure may charge in time,

## Uncovering Momentum space
In the first of the lecture time will not be relevant. I don't show time in wave function, but you could put time every where.
$$\Psi(x)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int \Phi(k) e^{i k x} d k \quad \text{supper position of plane wave}$$

$$
\Phi(k)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2} \pi} \int \Psi(x) e^{-i k x} d x
$$
The information of $\Psi$ is encoded in $\Phi(k)$, if you look at the first equation. So the $\Phi(k)$ has the same information as $\Psi(x)$.

And the other thing we've said about $\Phi(k)$ is that: It's the weight with which you're superposing plane waves to reconstruct $\Psi(x)$.

The Fourier transform theorem is a representation of the wave function in terms of a superposition of plane waves. $\Phi(k)$ is coefficient of the wave that accompanies each exponential.

We want understand even deeper what $\Phi(k)$ can mean? In order to do that, we need a technical tool. It is delta function. Based on three equations, one can derive a way of  representing this object, that we call delta-function. Apply these two equations simultaneously.
$$
\begin{aligned}
\Psi(x) & =\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int d k \;e^{i k x} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int \Psi\left(x^{\prime}\right) e^{-i k x^{\prime}} d x^{\prime} \\
& =\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} d x^{\prime} \Psi\left(x^{\prime}\right) \underbrace{\frac{1}{2 \pi} \int d k \;e^{i k\left(x-x^{\prime}\right)}}_{\delta\left(x^{\prime}-x\right): \;\text {It does n't depend on } k .}
\end{aligned}
$$

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \delta\left(x^{\prime}-x\right)=\delta\left(x-x^{\prime}\right) \\
& k \rightarrow-k \Rightarrow\int_{+\infty}^{-\infty}-d k \;e^{i k\left(x^{\prime}-x\right)}=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} e^{i k\left(x^{\prime}-x\right)} \\
& \delta\left(x-x^{\prime}\right)=\frac{1}{2 \pi} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} d k \;e^{i k\left(x-x^{\prime}\right)} \\
& x-x^{\prime}=0 \rightarrow \delta=\infty \\
& x-x^{\prime} \neq 0 \rightarrow \text { All these waves }\left(e^{i k\left(x-x^{\prime}\right)}\right) \text { superimpose to zero. }
\end{aligned}
$$

## References:35

## Related:



