# Time evolution of a free particle wave packet
Created:2024-01-09 13:03

Suppose you know $\Psi(x, 0)$. How do I calculate $\Psi(x, t)$ ?
Step one: calculate $\Phi(k)$

$$
\Phi(k)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int d x \;\Psi(x, 0) e^{-i k x}
$$

Step two: with this

$$
\Psi(x, 0)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int d k \;\phi(k) e^{i k x}
$$

Rewriting $\Psi(x, 0)$ which was an arbitrary function as a super position of plane waves.


Step three:$\quad \Psi(x, t)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int d k \;\Phi(k) e^{i(k x-\omega(k) t)} \quad \hbar \omega(k)=\frac{\hbar^{2} k^{2}}{2 m}$
And I claim that just by writing this integral, I've solved Schrodinger equation. You can check it. Put $\Psi(x, t)$  $i\hbar\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial t}=-\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m} \frac{\partial^{2} \Psi}{\partial x^{2}}$

It's clear that we concentrate on $e^{i(k x-\omega(k) t)}$. And it solves this, because it is a plane wave. $\Psi(x, t)$ is a superposition of plane waves, Each of this plane wave solves the free Schrodinger equation.

Schrodinger equation is first order in time. If you know the wave function at one time, you get the wave function at any time.

If you put $t=0$ in solution, you get $\Psi(x, 0)$ that you wrote in step two. So it has the right condition. Not only solve the Schrodinger equation, but it reduces to right thing.

Step 4. Do the $k$ integral
Some times it's possible. I think one should definitely focus on this and appreciate that with zero effort and Fourier's theorem you're managing to solve the propagation of any initial wave.

## Question:
Evolving the free Gaussian

$$
\Psi_{a}(x, a)=\frac{e^{\frac{-x^{2}}{4 a^{2}}}}{(2 \pi)^{1 / 4} \sqrt{a}} \quad \Delta x \simeq a \quad \Rightarrow \Delta x
$$

You have  a Gaussian that you have to evolve. This Gaussian does not represent a moving Gaussian. To be a moving Gaussian, you would like to see maybe $e^{i p x}$. That represses waves with momentum. So that must be a Gaussian that's just sitting here And what's it going to do in time? It's presumably going to spread outs So the width is going to change in time. The time for shape changes

$$
\tau \ll \frac{m}{\hbar}(\Delta x)^{2}=2 \frac{m}{\hbar} a^{2}
$$

I will do those four steps, They're all doable for Gaussians. I' ll find Fourier transform which is another Gaussian. In step 4, the answer is a bit messy for $\Psi$, but not messy for $|\Psi|^{2}$ which is we typically ask you to find.


## References:34

## Related:



