#Physics #Quantum #Barton #Fourier #wave_packet #wave_function 
# Reality condition in Fourier transforms is $\Psi(x, 0)$ real?
Created:2024-01-06 22:59

The answer is no. How do I know? We can take complex conjugate. And at the end of day, this will boil down to some property of $\Phi(k)$.

You have an expression of $\Psi(x)$ in terms of $\Phi(k)$. So it would not be surprising that the requirement that $\Psi$ is complex mean something about $\phi(k)$
$$(\Psi(x, 0))^{*}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}(\Phi(k))^{*} e^{-i k x} d k$$
Now compare this with $\Psi(x, 0)$ or let's consider what is the condition that this be real. Simplify above with changing variable

$$
\begin{aligned}
\Psi(x, 0)^{*} & =\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \Phi^{*}(k) e^{-i k x} d k \\
\text{If} \;k \rightarrow-k \Rightarrow& =\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \Phi^{*}(-k) e^{i k x} d k \\
& \stackrel{?}{=} \frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \Phi(k) e^{i k x} d k=\Psi(x, 0)
\end{aligned}
$$

So if $\Phi(-k)=\Phi(k)$ the $\Psi(x, 0)$ is real. Reality requiters:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\left(\Phi(k)-\Phi^{*}(-k)\right) e^{i k x} d k=0
$$

This integral should be vanished for all values of $k$. We can conclude $\Phi(K)-\Phi^{*}(K)=0$. And that is correct. That is perfectly legal argument. And it basically if you want to express it more precisely, you could base it on the Fourier theorem again. These two sets of equalities here are Fourier's theorem. And look what this is saying:
This is saying the quantity $\left(\Phi(k)-\Phi^{*}(-k)\right)$ has a $0$ Fourier transform because if this quantity be zero so $\Psi(x, 0)=0$ because 

$$
\Psi(x, 0)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int 0 \;e^{i k x} d k=0
$$

Now because $\Psi(x, 0)=0$ so we can use the second equation of Fourier transform

$$
\Phi(k)=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2 \pi}} \int 0 e^{-i k x}=0
$$

So this is absolutely rigorous. And therefore you ger the conclusion that

$$
\Phi^{*}(-k)=\Phi(k)
$$
And that's the condition for reality. $\Phi$ doesn't satisfy this property. What do you see in this property? There is no $\Phi(k)$ for $\Phi(-k)$.
So basically if you were plotting not the absolute value, but the real part and the imaginary part's of $\Psi$, you would see some sort of funny waves. And the absolute value it's much nicer and simpler.
## References:31

## Related:



