#Physics #Barton #Quantum 
# Wave for a particle
Created:2023-09-20 16-16

<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">شماره گزاری برای تابع های موج رو نکرپم</mark>
What is the wave? Now I am going to do an argument based on superposition and probability. Suppose plane wave in the $+X$ direction.

- $\sin(kx-\omega t)$
- $\cos(kx-\omega t)$
- $e^{i(kx-\omega t)}$
- $e^{-i(kx+\omega t)}$
Which one, either or couple of them or non of them
> Use superposition + vague notion of probability

I am going to build a wave with equal probability moves to the left and right.

For $(1)$
$$\sin(kx-\omega t)= 2\sin(kx)\cos(\omega t)$$
vanishes at $\omega t = \dfrac{\pi}{2},\dfrac{3\pi}{2},\dfrac{5\pi}{2}$ and probability vanishes. It's hold for $(2)$.
Now let's pay to $III$

$$e^{ikx-i\omega t}+e^{-ikx-i\omega t}$$

To get a wave that moves in the opposite direction we have to do $e^{-ikx}$. Because I can not change phase. always this energy 

ب<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">اید چک شو</mark> ننوشتم یک چیزی رو

This wave function never vanishes allover space. Because $e^{-i \omega t}$ is now a phase and the phase is always non-zero. But this wave can vanishes at some point $Kx= \dfrac{\pi}{2},...$.  at this situation you cannot find the particle. It's better than $I,II$. Therefore $III$ is much better behaved than these things for superposition.


For $IV$
$$e^{-ikx}e^{i\omega t}+e^{ikx}e^{i\omega t}=2\cos(kx)e^{i\omega t}\;\;\;\; \text{good}$$


We cannot preve it is good at this point. we an only prove that yovare not getting in trouble
Now which onel li or iv ?
Can I use both of thems
NOL
Simultanesously
Let's trg + é (KX-Wt) = 2 G (KK -eT)
X
We have to choose one of them





## References:

## Related: