# 2024-11-18 22:38 Su 8.04 Eigenfunction of a Hermitian operator
Created:2024-11-18 22:38
So here comes the point that this quite fabulous about Hermitian operators. Here is the thing that it really should impress you. It's the fact, that any all Hermitian operators have as many eigenfunction and eigenvalues as you can possibly need. Whatever that means, But they're rich. It's a lot of those states.
What it really means is that the set of eigenfunction for any Hermitian operator, whatever Hermitian operator, It's not just for some especially nice ones, for all of them you get eigenfunctions. And these eigenfunction, because it has vectors, they are enough to span the space of states.
That is any state can be written as a superposition of those eigenvectors. If you're thinking finite dimensional vector spaces, if you're looking at the Hermitian matrix, the eigenvectors will provide you a basis for the vector space. You can span anything in terms of eigenvectors. It's such an important theorem, it's called the specteral theorem in mathematics.

## Claim 3
Consider the collection of eigenfunction s and eigenvalues of the Hermitian operator Q.

$$
\begin{aligned}
& Q \psi_{1}=q_{1} \psi_{1} \\
& Q \psi_{2}=q_{2} \psi_{2}
\end{aligned}
$$

And I actually don't specify if it's 'finite set or an infinite set. The infinite set, of course, is a tiny bit more complicated, but the results is true as well. Now that's the claim: The eigenfunctions can be organized to satisfy the following relation

$$
\int d x\; \Psi_{i}^{*}(x) \Psi_{j}(x)=\delta_{i j} \quad \text { orthonormality }
$$

Let see what this all mean!
These functions are like orthonormal functions which is to say each function has unit norm. You see this if you take $i=j$

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \int d x \psi_{1}^{*} \psi_{1}=1=\delta_{11} \\
& \int d x \psi_{2}^{*} \psi_{2}=1=\delta_{22}
\end{aligned}
$$

But even more, any two different ones are orthonormal. This is like the three basis vectors of $\mathbb{R}_{i}^{3}$. The $\{i, j, k\}$ basis, each one has length one and they're all orthonormal.

When are two functions orthonormal? When vectors are orthonormal, I know what I mean. But orthonormality for functions means doing this integral. $\left(\int d x \psi_{i}^{*} \psi_{j}\right)$. This integral measures how different one function is from another one. Because if you have the same function $\int d x \psi_{i}^{*} \psi_{i}=\int\left|\psi_{i}\right|^{2} d x$. And the $\int\left|\psi_{i}\right|^{2} d x$ is positive and this all adds up. But for different functions, this is a measure of the inner product between two functions. You See, you have the dot product between two vectors. The dot product of two functions is an integral like that.

I want to prove one part of this, and the other part is a little more Complicated.
consider the case: If $q_{i} \neq q_{j}$. I claim I can prove claim 3. We can prove this orthonormality.

$$
\begin{align*}
& \int d x \psi_{i}^{*} Q \psi_{j}=\int d x \psi_{i}^{*} \varphi_{j} \psi_{j}=q_{j} \int \psi_{i}^{*} \psi_{j}  \tag{I}\\
& \int d x \psi_{i}^{*} Q \psi_{j}=\int d x\left(Q \psi_{i}\right)^{*} \psi_{j}=\int d x\left(q_{i} \psi_{i}\right)^{*} \psi_{j} \stackrel{\text { see }}{\underset{\text { Note }}{=}} q_{i} \int \psi_{i}^{*} \psi_{j}\tag{ II }
\end{align*}
$$

Note: And now remember $q_{i}$ is an eigenvalue for Hermitian operator. We already know, it's real, so $q_{i}$ goes out of the integral.

$$
\xrightarrow{(\underline{I 1, I I)}}\left(q_{i}-q_{j}\right) \underbrace{\int \psi_{i}^{*} \psi_{j} d x}_{\text {Overlap between } \psi_{i}, \psi_{j}}=0
$$

Now look what you've proven. We started with $q_{i} \neq q_{j}$ And the only possibility to $(III)$ be true is

$$
\int \psi_{i}^{*} \psi_{j} d x=0
$$

So the eigenfunction can be organized to have orthonormality between different points.
My proof is good but is not perfect. But sometimes something very interesting happens in quantum mechanics. It's called degeneracy. It means that there may be several eigenfunction that are different but have the same eigenvalue. We're going to find Soon.

For example, states of a particle that move in a circle that are different and have the same energy. For example, a particle is moving in a circle with velocity and a particle is moving in a circle with the same magnetude of the velocity in the other direction are two states that are different but have the same energy eigenvalue.

So it's possible that $q_{1}, q_{2}$, , not all are different. So Suppose you have three degenerate states. They all have the same eigenvalue. But they're different. Are they or thonormal or not? The answer is: the eigenfunction can be organized to satisfy. It would be wrong if you say the eigetunetion satisfy.

They can be organized to satisfy. Itmeans that, yes, those ones that have different eigenvalues are automatically or thonormal. But those that have the same eigenvalues, they may not necessarily be orthonormal. But you can do linear transformations of them and form linear combinations such that they're or thonormal.

So the interesting part of this theorem, which is the more difficult part mathematically, is to show that when you have degeneracieseand the theory is theorem still holds. And there's still enough eigenvectors to span the space.

## References:41

## Related:



