#Physics #Quantum #Barton #Operator 
# 2024-01-12 11:31 Su Expectation values of operators
Created:2024-11-12 11:31

This is in a sense one of our first steps that we're going to take towards the interpretation of quantum mechanics. Already the wave function tells you about probabilities, but that's not quire enough to have the full interpretation.
So for example, if you have a random variable $Q$ that can take values in the set $Q_{1}, \ldots Q_{n}$ with probabilities $P_{1}, \ldots P_{n}$. In statistics, you would say that random variable has expectation value.
$$
\langle Q\rangle=\sum_{i=1}^{n} Q_{i} P_{i}
$$

The expectation value is the expected value or average value that you would obtain if you did the experiment of tossing the random variable many time.
So in quantum system we follow this analogy very closely. In quantum system $\Psi^{*}(x, t)\Psi(x, t) d x$ is the probability that the particle is in $(x, x+d x)$. The position of this particle is like a random variable. You never know where you're going to find it. But it has different probabilities to find it.

So we could now define in complete analogy to here. Expectation value of $\hat{x}$

$$
\langle\hat{x}\rangle \equiv \int x \Psi^{*}(x,t) \Psi(x, t) d x
$$It may depend on time. Physically it means, When you have one hundred copies of system and you measure the position simultaneously, the average is expectation value.

We can do the same thing with momentum. $\Phi(p) \Phi^{*}(p) d p$ is the probability to find the particle with momentum in the range $(p, p+d p)$

$$
\langle\hat{p}\rangle \equiv \int p \;\Phi^{*}(p) \Phi(p) d p \equiv \int p|\Phi(p)|^{2} d p
$$
It's all done in momentum space, what happen if you would try to do this in position space? You know how $\Phi(p)$ is related to $\Psi(x)$. So let's try to do that. write every thing in terms of $x$
$$\langle\hat{p}\rangle \equiv \int p \underbrace{\Phi^{*}(p)}_{x'} \underbrace{\Phi(p)}_{x} d p=$$

$$
\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} p d p \int \frac{d x^{\prime}}{\sqrt{2 \pi\hbar}} e^{i \frac{p x^{\prime}}{\hbar}} \Psi^{*}\left(x^{\prime}\right) \int \frac{d x}{\sqrt{2 \pi \hbar}} e^{-i \frac{p x}{\hbar}} \Psi(x)
$$

$$=\frac{1}{2 \pi \hbar} \int d x^{\prime} \Psi^{*}\left(x^{\prime}\right) \int d x \Psi(x) \underbrace{\int d p\; p e^{i p x^{\prime} / \hbar} e^{-i p x / \hbar}}_{\int d p\left(-\frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\right) e^{i p x^{\prime} / \hbar} e^{-i \frac{p x}{\hbar}}}$$

The $\int dp\; p e^{i p x^{\prime} / \hbar} e^{-i p x / \hbar}$ would be a delta function if the $p$ was not here. So what I should try to do is get rid of that $p$, in order to understand what we have. I claim 
$$\int d p \;p e^{i p x^{\prime} / \hbar} e^{-i p x / \hbar}=\int d p\left(-\frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\right) e^{i p x^{\prime} / \hbar} e^{-i p x / \hbar}$$
and then I can move $\left(-\frac{h}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\right)$ to outside of integral
$$
=\int d x^{\prime} \Psi^{*}\left(x^{\prime}\right) \int d x\; \Psi(x)\underbrace{\left(-\frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\right) }_{\text{Intergration by part of}\;\Psi(x)}\underbrace{\frac{1}{2 \pi \hbar} \int d p\; e^{i p\frac{(x^{\prime}-x)}{\hbar}}}_{\delta(x'-x)}
$$
When you integration by parts, you have to worry a bout the term at the boundary. But if your wave functions vanish sufficiently fast at infinity, there's no problem. We will do integration by parts and then do the delta functions.
> Note: Look I didn't want to get derivative of integral. If I get derivative $-\frac{h}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x} \frac{1}{2 \pi \hbar} \int d p \;e^{i p \frac{\left(x^{\prime}-x\right)}{\hbar}}$, all thing would be complex.

$$
\begin{aligned}
& =\int d x^{\prime} \Psi^{*}\left(x^{\prime}\right) \int d x \frac{h}{i} \frac{\Psi}{\partial x} \delta\left(x-x^{\prime}\right) \\
& =\int d x \frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial x} \int d x^{\prime} \Psi^{*}\left(x^{\prime}\right) \delta\left(x-x^{\prime}\right) \\
& =\int d x \frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial \Psi(x)}{\partial x} \Psi^{*}(x)=\int d x \Psi^{*}(x) \frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x} \Psi(x) 
\end{aligned}
$$
$$
\boxed{\begin{aligned}
\langle\hat{p}\rangle & =\int p|\Phi(p, t)|^{2} d p=\int d x \;\Psi^{*}(x) \hat{p} \Psi(x) \quad \hat{p}=\frac{\hbar}{i} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}
\end{aligned}}$$

So in general for an operator $\hat{Q}$
$$
\underbrace{\langle\hat{Q}\rangle}_{\text{time dependent}}=\int d x \Psi_{(x, t)}^{*}(\hat{Q} \psi(x, t))
$$

## Example

$$
\hat{T}=\frac{\hat{p}^{2}}{2 m} \text {. How would you compute its expectation value? }
$$

$$
\begin{align*}
& \langle\hat{T}\rangle=\int d x \;\Psi^*{(x, t)}\left(-\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m} \frac{\partial^{2}}{\partial x^{2}} \Psi(x, t)\right)=\int d x \frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m}\left|\frac{\partial \Psi}{\partial x}\right|^{2}  \tag{I}\\
& \langle\hat{T}\rangle=\int d p \;\underbrace{\frac{p^{2}}{2 m}|\Phi(p)|^{2}}_{\text {positive }}=\int d p\; \Phi^{*}(p) \frac{p^{2}}{2 m} \Phi(p)
\end{align*}
$$

But in $(I)$, it appears is negative. It's illusion. Do integration by parts and therefore

## References:38

## Related:



