#Physics #Quantum #Barton 
# Probability current and current conservation
Created:2024-01-04 12-30

We wanted to show probability is conserved and for this we found the needed condition. So for conservation $\hat{H}$ should be hermitian. Now we want to pay with another method. Actually after this long detour to avoid doing the real computation So here's the real computation.

$$
\begin{aligned}
& \frac{d N}{d t}=\int dx \; \frac{i}{\hbar}\underbrace{\left[(\hat{H} \Psi)^{*} \Psi-\Psi^{*}(\hat{H} \Psi)\right]}_{\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}} \\
& \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}=\frac{i}{\hbar}\left[-\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m} \frac{\partial^{2} \Psi^{*}}{\partial x^{2}} \Psi+v(x, y) \Psi^{*} \Psi+\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m} \Psi^{*} \frac{\partial^{2} \Psi}{\partial x^{2}}\right. \\
& \left.\quad-\Psi^{*} v(x, t) \Psi\right]
\end{aligned}
$$

>Note: I should have said before, $V(x, t)$ potential is real.

$$
\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}=\frac{-i \hbar}{2 m}\left(\frac{\partial^{2} \psi^{*}}{\partial x^{2}} \psi-\psi^{*} \frac{\partial^{2} \psi}{\partial x^{2}}\right)
$$

We have to simplify it more and what could save us is the same thing that save us all the time when you want to show an integral vanishes many times, what you show is that, it is a total derivative. So if I could show this is a derivative with respect to $x$, the total derivative then the integral would go to the boundaries and I would have chance to make it zero

$$
\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}=\frac{-i \hbar}{2 m} \frac{\partial}{\partial x}\left(\frac{\partial \psi^{*}}{\partial x} \psi-\psi^{*} \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial x}\right)
$$

So it's a lucky circumstance, this is a total derivative with respect to $x$

$$
\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}=-\frac{\partial}{\partial x}\left[\frac{\hbar}{2im}\left(\psi^{*} \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial x}-\psi \frac{\partial \psi^{*}}{\partial x}\right)\right]
$$

You just need to see what happens to these quantities as $x$ goes to infinity. And $x$ goes to infinity that $\psi$ must go to zero from the beginning. And $\frac{d \psi}{d x}$ must not blow up, so this whole thing goes to zero. Therefore $\frac{d N}{d t}=0$, were done with condition that we mentioned
$\lim _{x \rightarrow \pm \infty} \psi(x, t)=0 \quad \lim _{x \rightarrow \pm \infty} \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial x}$ is bounded!

> Recall:

$$
\begin{aligned}
z-z^{*}=2 i \operatorname{Im}(z)
\end{aligned}$$


$$
\begin{aligned}
\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} & =-\frac{\partial}{\partial x}\left[\frac{h}{2 i m}-2 i \operatorname{Im}\left(\psi^{*} \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial x}\right)\right] \\
& =-\frac{\partial}{\partial x}[\underbrace{\frac{\hbar}{m} \operatorname{Im}\left(\psi^{*} \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial x}\right)}_{J(x, t)}]
\end{aligned}
$$

$J(x, r)$ is current density.



$$
\frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t}+\frac{\partial J}{\partial x}=0
$$

Now this is called current conservation. You began with the introduction of a charged density which was a probability density, but you were led now to the existence of a current.

Unit:

$$
\begin{equation*}
[\psi]=\frac{1}{\sqrt{L}} \quad \int|\psi|^{2} d x=1
\end{equation*}
$$
$$
{\left[\psi^{*} \frac{\partial}{\partial x} \psi\right]=\frac{1}{L^{2}}} \\
$$
$$
{[\hbar]=\frac{M L^{2}}{T} \quad\left[\frac{\hbar}{m}\right]=\frac{L^{2}}{T}} \\
$$
$$
[J]= \frac{L^{2}}{T} \frac{1}{L^{2}}= \frac{1}{T}
$$


This means just probability per unit time. That's the units of current. Probability has no units. So it's the probability per unit time.
## References:
- From 28 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 28 prof.Barton- Lecture 6 PDF file- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:

