#Physics #Barton #Quantum 
# 2023-09-23 00-34 Su Free Schrodinger equation
Created:2024-09-23 00-34

Free particle S.E

$$
i \hbar \frac{\partial}{\partial t} \psi=-\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2 m} \frac{\partial^{2}}{\partial x^{2}} \psi
\tag{1}$$

This is a wonderful equation it carries a lot of information. If you put $\Psi$, it's going be a solution. But more than that it's going tell y Try $\Psi$ in S.E

$$\psi=e^{i k x-i \omega t} \tag{2}$$
$$
\begin{aligned}
\Rightarrow & \underbrace{\hbar \omega=\frac{h^{2} k^{2}}{2 m}}_{(3)} \Rightarrow E=\frac{p^{2}}{2 m}
\end{aligned}
$$

S.E admits these as solutions. then this will have definite momentum, it will have definite energy. But even more when you try to see if you solve, you will find the proper relation between $E$ and $P$.

$(1)$ is infinitely superior version of $\left(\psi=e^{i k x-i \omega t}\right)$. Because for example another thing that you have here: this equation is linear.

You can form solutions ($\Psi$ appears linearly also) by superposition.

$(1)$ is a free particle Schrodinger equation.

And you might say, Well, the most general solutions must be $e^{i k x-i \omega t}$.
But linearity means that you can compose those plane waves and add them. And if you can add plane waves by Fourier theorem, you can create pretty much all the things you want.


And If you have this equation you know how to evolve free $t$, particle. you can construct a wave packet of a particle and evolve it with S.E. And see how the packet moves and does it thing. All that is now possible, which was not possible by just saying here is a matter wave ( $\left.\Psi=e^{+i k x-i \omega t}\right)$
You've worked back to <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">get an equation.</mark>

This is something that happens in physics all the time. Now emphasize it:

<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">You use little pieces of evidence that lead you perhaps not perfect logical way but in a reasonable way to an equation. That equation is a lot smarter than you and all the information that you putin. That equation has all kinds of physics</mark>" 3:45 :7)

$$
\begin{aligned}
& (3) \rightarrow \omega=\omega(k) \\
& \Psi(x, t)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} d k \underbrace{\Phi(k)}_{\text{localized at }k_0} e^{i k x-i \omega(k) t}
\end{aligned}
$$

This is the general solution. And for this, applies velocity of the waves.

$\Phi(k)\equiv$ localized at $k_{0}$. otherwise you can not speak of the group velocity. This thing will not have a definite group velocity.

$$
v_{g}=\left.\frac{d \omega}{d k}\right|_{k_{0}}=\frac{d E}{d p}=\frac{d}{d p}\left(\frac{p^{2}}{2 m}\right)=\frac{p}{m}=v
$$

<mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">Remarks:</mark>

* $\Psi$ can not be real. full wave function cannot be real. I said full. we talk some time later about time independent. wave functions.
* Not a usual wave equation $\frac{\partial^{2} \phi}{\partial x^{2}}-\frac{1}{V^{2}} \frac{\partial^{2} \phi}{\partial t^{2}}=0$

The problem is it has real solutions $\phi \sim f(x \mp v t)$.
This waves also all move with some same velocity $v$ but about solution of schrodinger-equation, the wave, They have a group velocity.
Also we kept second derivative $\frac{\partial}{\partial x^{2}}$ but we replaced $\frac{\partial^{2}}{\partial t}$ with first derivative.


## References:
- From 22 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 22 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses

## Related:



