#Physics #Quantum #Barton #wave_function  #group_velocity #phase_velocity #4-vector
Tags: 
# The frequency of a matter wave
Created:2023-09-04 10-34
We spoke about $\lambda$. What is the frequency of a matter waves? de Broglie did the answer:
$$p=\hbar k$$
$$E=\hbar \omega$$
$$\therefore \quad \omega=\dfrac {E}{\hbar}$$
And complete the story. It can be written in vector mode: 
$$\vec{p}=\hbar \vec{k}$$


$$
\class{centered-wave}
Wave \rightsquigarrow \text{Phase:} \ kx - \omega t
$$
$$V_{\text {phase}}=\dfrac {\omega}{K}=\dfrac {E}{P}\overset{\text {non relatvisitic}}{=} \dfrac {\dfrac {1}{2}mV^2}{mV}=\dfrac {1}{2}V$$
It's the velocity in which the nodes and maxima of this plane wave move.

So If I have a particle with $E,\; p$, $E= \dfrac {1}{2}mv^2$, $p=mv$. and now seems the wave is moving half the speed of particle! 

$$\therefore \text{That looks pretty bad!}$$

## What's going on?
###  Phase velocity is not meaningful
This is the usual story with waves. If the wave itself doesn't a plane wave, carries no real information. It's not a signal. So many times when you try to represent the particle or a little bit of information traveling representing it with a <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">plane wave</mark> is actually wrong. <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">You have to represent it with a wave packet</mark>

$$V_{\text{phase}} = \dfrac {1}{2}V$$
- This wave is very strange
- phase velocity is not very meaningful physically

## What's meaningful? 
<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">meaningful velocity is group velocity.</mark>
$$V_{\text{group}}= \dfrac {d\omega}{dk}|_k=\dfrac {dE}{dp}=\dfrac {d}{dp}(\dfrac {p^2}{2m})=V$$

And This equality is the reason people did believe de Broglie. Actually it's true relativistically as well. Put $p$ and $E$ relativistically and this answer comes out exactly the same.


* In Special Relativity $(E/c,\vec{p})$ form 4-vector. Just like position and time, and transform nicely about with Lotrntz transformation. Nevertheless, when you consider phase like $kx-\omega t$ you have $(t,\vec{X})$ that form 4-vector. The good behavior of phases also imply that $k$ and $\omega$ form a 4-vector.

$$(E/c,\vec{p}) = \hbar(\omega/c,\vec{k})$$  de Broglie put $\hbar$ and convert to equality.
> Note: $(E/c,p)$ is 4-vector and therefore $\omega/c,\vec{k}$ is.

Einstein said for a photon $E=\hbar \omega = h\nu$ and it's true for matter wave.

## References:
-  From 17 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 17 prof.Barton- Lecture 4 PDF file- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:



