#Physics #Barton #Quantum 
# Interpretation of the wave function
Created:2023-09-24 07-09

## Max. Born vs Schrodinger & Albert
Schrodinger thought that $\Psi$ represents particles that disintegrate. You have a wave function, and the wave function spread all over space. So the particle has distinguished completely.

> More $\psi \rightarrow$ More particle is there

Max Born solved S.E for a particle that hits a coulomb potential then they found the wave function falls off $\dfrac {1}{r^2}$. "But we did experiment, the particle choose a way and it goes one way and when you measure it, you get the full particle. particle never disintegrate", Max Born said.

Max Born said: $\Psi$ doesn't tell how much of the particle $m$ at $x$ at time $t,$ But rather what's the probability to find it at $x$ at time $t.$

> $$ \boxed{\underbrace {dp(x,t_0)}_{Probability\; of\; find \;at \;x\; at\; time\; t_0,\; within\; cube.}=|\Psi(\vec{x},t_0)|^2\;d^3x}$$



If you have a single particle it better be

$$
\int d_{\text {over space }} d^{3} x\left|\psi\left(x, t_{0}\right)\right|^{2}=1
\tag{*}$$

But maybe there is some difficulties. You wrote S.E, and it tells you how $\psi$ evolves in time. suppose you have $\Psi$ all over space at $t_{0}$. S.E determines $\psi$ for anytime by integrating.

$$
i \hbar \frac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}=\hat{H} \psi
$$

So we could run into a problem. If the integral $(*)$ be 1, you can not force this integral be one in other time. Because the wave function now is determined by the S.E.
## References:
- From 25 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 25 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses

## Related:



