#Physics #Quantum #Barton #Linearity #linear


# 1 QM as a framework
Created:2023-08-13 23-00

In 1925 $\rightsquigarrow$ Schrodinger & Heisenberg $\rightsquigarrow$ wrote down QM equations. However QM is started in early 19 century


Quantum mechanics is really a framework to do physics. and correct the description of fundamental theory. Classical mechanics is a good approximation, but we know that at some point, It's not quiet right.

Quantum physics is the principles of QM applied to different physical phenomena. For example:

- Quantum electrodynamics  which is quantum mechanics applied to electromagnetism. 

- Quantum chromodynamics which is quantum mechanics applied to strong interaction.

- Quantum optics which is quantum mechanics applied to photons.

- You have quantum gravity when you try to apply quantum mechanics to gravitation. why laughs?:))))))) and that's what gives rise to string theory which is presumably a theory of gravity and in fact the quantum theory of all interactions, If it's correct. Because not only describes gravity, it describes all other forces.

So Quantum mechanics is a framework.
## <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">1.1 What are the properties?</mark>

- ﻿﻿﻿Linearity of QM
- Necessity of Complex number
- ﻿﻿﻿Loss of determinism
- Superposition Unusual
- Entanglement

# Linearity

When You have a theory, Yow have some dynamical variables. These are the variables you want to find their values because they are connected with observation. Maxwell is a linear theory. What is that mean in practice:

If You have two solutions, for example consider two plane waves like horizontal and vertical, then you can form third solution which is two plane waves propagating simultaneously, and you don't have to change anything. You can just put them together, and you get a new solution. The two waves propagate without touching each other, without affecting each other.

## It's very useful in practice. Why?

All cell phones, radio stations and millions phone calls go simultaneously without affecting each other. A transatlantic cable can conduct millions phone calls at the same time and as much data and video and internet. It's all superposition. All information go simultaneously through without interfering with each other.  


## What is that mean in mathematics? 

- If ($E$, $B$, $\rho$, $\vec{J}$ ) be a Maxwell solution. Now suppose $\alpha \in \mathbb{R}$ then ($\alpha E$, $\alpha B$, $\alpha \rho$, $\alpha\vec{J}$) is another solution.

- Also If you have two solutions, you can add them, we have a single solution. You can scale it by a number.


Linear equation:

$$LU = 0 \tag{1}$$

where $L \equiv$ Linear operator 
and $U \equiv$ Unknown. 

In order to check linearity, it's just enough to check two below conditions
$$L(aU) = a LU \quad\mathrm{and}\quad L(U_{1}+U_{2}) = LU_{1}+LU_{2} \tag{*}$$

Now you can check linearity. It's just enough that Check two properties at $(*)$. 

Example:
$$\dfrac {du}{dt}+\dfrac {1}{\tau}u=0$$
$$Lu=0$$
The operator can be calculated:
$$Lu=\dfrac {du}{dt}+\dfrac {1}{\tau}u$$
And finally

$$L= \dfrac {d}{dt}+\dfrac {1}{\tau}$$
Now you can check linearity. It's just enough that check two properties at $(*)$.


## References:
- From 1 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 1 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses
## Related:
