#Physics #Quantum #Barton #Operator #Hermitian #eigenvalue #expectation_value  
## observables and Hermitian operator
# Expectation value of Hermitian operator
Created:2025-05-27 20:22
We've said that an operator $\hat{Q}$ is Hermitian if

$$
\int d x \Psi_{1}^{*} \hat{Q} \Psi_{2}=\int d x\left(\hat{Q} \Psi_{1}\right)^{*} \Psi_{2}
$$

So you've learned already, this requires some properties a bout the wave functions for any at infinity, some integration by parts, we want to sometimes use a briefer notation

$$
\left(\Psi_{1}, \Psi_{2}\right) \equiv \int \Psi_{1}^{*}(x) \Psi_{2}(x) d x
$$

This concludes

$$
\begin{align*}
& \left(a \Psi_{1}, \Psi_{2}\right)=a^{*}\left(\Psi_{1}, \Psi_{2}\right) \\
& \left(\Psi_{1}, a \Psi_{2}\right)=a\left(\Psi_{1}, \Psi_{2}\right) \tag{$C$}
\end{align*}
$$

with this definition, a Hermitian operator can be written

$$
\left(\Psi_{1}, Q \Psi_{2}\right)=\left(Q \Psi_{1}, \Psi_{2}\right)
$$

We reviewed about Hermitian operator. Expectation value of $\hat{Q}$ in $\Psi(x)$

$$
\langle\hat{Q}\rangle_{\Psi}=\int \Psi^{*} \hat{Q} \Psi d x=(\Psi, \hat{Q} \Psi)
$$
# Claim 1
$\langle\hat{Q}\rangle_{\Psi}$ is real
$\hat{Q}$ is Hermitian. But wait! why is this important? You have $\Psi^{*}, \Psi$, well it'd better be real, if we're going to think, and that's the goal of discussion, that Hermitian operators are the things you can measure in quantum mechanics

$$
\begin{gathered}
\left(\langle Q\rangle_{\Psi}\right)^{*}=\int d x\left(\Psi^{*} \hat{Q} \Psi\right)^{*}=\int d x \Psi(\hat{Q} \Psi)^{*}=\int d x(\hat{Q} \Psi)^{*} \Psi \\
\underset{\substack{\text { Hermitian } \\
\text { operator }}}{=} \int d x \Psi^{*} Q \Psi=\langle Q\rangle_{\Psi}
\end{gathered}
$$

## Claim 2

The eigenvalue of $\hat{Q}$ are real.

$$
\hat{Q} \Psi_{1}=q_{1} \Psi_{1} \quad q_{1} \text { is the eigenvalue. } \quad \Psi_{1} \text { is the eigen function (normalized) }
$$

Calculate the expectation value of $\hat{Q}$ on that precise $\Psi_{1}$. You see $\Psi_{1}$ is particular state. We've called it an eigenstate of the operator. Now you can ask, suppose you live in $\Psi_{1}$, that's your state. what's the expectation value of this operator? We'll learn more about this question later but now
$$\mathbb{R}\ni\langle\hat{Q}\rangle_{\Psi_{1}}=\int dx \;\Psi_1^*\underbrace{\hat{Q}\Psi_1}_{\hat{Q}\Psi_1= q_{1} \Psi_1}=\int dx \;\Psi_1^*q_1\Psi_1=q_1\underbrace{\int\Psi_1^*\Psi_1}_{\in \mathbb{R},\text{normalized}}=q_1\in \mathbb{R} \tag{I}$$
$$
\begin{aligned}
& \Rightarrow q_{1} \in \mathbb{R}
\end{aligned}
$$

$\langle\hat{Q}\rangle_{\Psi_{1}}$ is real we've proven in claim 1.

Now it's an interesting observation that if your eigenstate is a normalized eigenfunction, look at the eigenfunction equation. It doesn't depend on what precise $\Psi_{1}$ you have, because if you put $\Psi_{1}$ or $2 \Psi_{1}$, the $\hat{Q}_{1} \Psi_{1}=q_{1} \Psi_{1}$ is Still holds. So if it hold for $\Psi_{1}$, if $\Psi_{1}$ is called eigenfunction, $3 \Psi_{1},-\Psi_{1}, 5 \Psi_{1}$ are all eigenfunctions.

Properly speaking in mathematics one says that the eigenfunction is the subspace generated by $\Psi_{1}$ by multiplication. Because everything is accepted.

But when we talk about the particle maybe being in the state of $\Psi_{1}$, we would want to normalized it, to make $\int\left|\Psi_{1}\right|^{2}=1$. In that case you would obtain that the expectation value of the operator on $\Psi_{1}$ state is precisely the eigenvalue $q_{1}$. When you keep measuring this operator, this state, for keep getting the eigenvalue.

Here is probably a very important thing, when ever you compute an expectation value, you'd better normalized the state. Because otherwise if you don't normalize the state, you do the $\langle\hat{Q}\rangle_{\Psi}=\int \Psi^{*} \hat{Q} \Psi\; d x$ and get some answer but, your friend uses a wave function three times yours and your friend gets now times your answer. So for $\langle\hat{Q}\rangle$ to be a well-defined calculation, the state must be normalized. And that's why I wrote the integral $(I)$ is equal $q_{1}$.
یکسری توضیح فارسی نوشتم 
فکر کنم بهتر باشه اینطور بگم فرض کنیم سای یک نرمالیز نباشه پس بخاطر خاصیت$Q\psi=q_1 \Psi_1$ این معادله  همچنان صادق است پس حالا میشه نرمالیز کرد و گفت 
$<Q>_{\psi_1} =q_1$
پس خاصیت معادله بالا است که میشود اینکار را کرد که به یک نتیجه شسته و رفته برسیم ولی برای سای حتما باید نرمالیز باشه چون بحث احتمالات است.
## References:
- From 40 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 40 prof.Barton- Lecture 9 PDF file- MIT courses
## Related:

