
#Physics #Barton #Quantum #wave_function #matter_wave #wave #wave_direction 
Tags: 

Status
# Wave for a free particle
Created:2023-09-20 16-16

Particle has clear $E=\hbar \omega, p=\hbar k$. What is the wave? Now I am going to do an argument based on superposition and probability. Suppose plane wave in the $+X$ direction.

- $\sin(kx-\omega t)$
- $\cos(kx-\omega t)$
- $e^{i(kx-\omega t)}$ always an $e^{-i\omega t}$ --> <mark style="background: #55C5B2;">I paid to why I fixed</mark> $e^{-i\omega t}$
- $e^{i(-kx+\omega t)}$ always an $e^{i\omega t}$
Which one, either or couple of them or non of them. That's we are going to try to understand. So argument is going to be based on superposition  and just the rough idea that somehow this has to do with the existence of particles having a wave.
> Use superposition + vague notion of probability

I am going to build a wave with equal probability moves to the left and right.

For $(1)$
$$\sin(kx-\omega t)+\sin(kx+\omega t)= 2\sin(kx)\cos(\omega t)$$
vanishes for all $x$ at $\omega t = \dfrac{\pi}{2},\dfrac{3\pi}{2},\dfrac{5\pi}{2}$ and probability vanishes. The particle has disappeared. It's hold for $(2)$.
Now let's pay to $III$

$$e^{ikx-i\omega t}+e^{-ikx-i\omega t}=2\cos(kx) \underbrace{e^{-i\omega t}}_{\text{phase}}$$

To get a wave that moves in the opposite direction we have to do $e^{-ikx}$. Because I can not change phase. always this is energy.
> <mark style="background: #55C5B2;">My point of view:</mark> First of all I imply the direction of wave can be find out some ways. One of them is compute the velocity. 
><mark style="background: #55C5B2;">My point of view:</mark> I could have two waves that propagate to the left. I could fix $e^{ikx}$ and change the other term. But If I did, this wave function would not appropriate. 

This wave function never vanishes all over space. Because $e^{-i \omega t}$ is now a phase and the phase is always non-zero. But this wave can vanishes at some point $Kx= \dfrac{\pi}{2},...$.  at this situation you cannot find the particle. It's better than $I,II$. Therefore $III$ is much better behaved than these things for superposition.


For $IV$
$$e^{-ikx}e^{i\omega t}+e^{ikx}e^{i\omega t}=2\cos(kx)e^{i\omega t}\;\;\;\; \text{good}$$


We cannot prove it is good at this point. we can only prove that you are not getting in trouble. Now which one $III$ or $IV$? Can I use both of them simultaneously? No!


Let's try 
$$e^{ikx-i\omega t}+e^{-i(kx-i\omega t)}=2\cos(kx-\omega t)$$

We have to choose one of them. and it is a matter of convention to choose one of them.
> <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">make a choice</mark>
> $$\Psi(x,t)=e^{ikx-i\omega t}$$


The energy Part will always have a minus sign. It's the matter ware for a particle with $p=\hbar k$ and $E= \hbar \omega$! You want 3. D ?

$$\Psi(\vec{x},t)=e^{i(\vec{k}.\vec{x}-\omega t)}$$
and 
$$\vec{p}=\hbar \vec{k}$$
That's the beginning of quantum mechanics. It will be a deductive process to figure out what equation it satisfies.


## References:

- From 20 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 20 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanica I- MIT courses
## Related: