#Physics #Quantum #Barton #Compton #Compton_Scattering

## Compton scattering
Created:2023-09-01 23-54

In 1916 he was ready to admit the photon is a particle because he added the photon has momentum

'photon' quanta (for energy also for momentum)

$$E^2-p^2c^2=m^2c^4 \;\; E=\dfrac {mc^2}{\sqrt{1-v^2/c^2}}\,\,p=\dfrac {mv}{\sqrt{1-v^2/c^2}}$$

There is similarity to relativistic in classical mechanics
$$E=\dfrac {1}{2}mv^2 \;\; p=m\vec{v} \Rightarrow E=\dfrac{p^2}{2m}$$
For photon you should use relativistic and the mass of photon is zero.
$$E_\gamma=p_\gamma c \Rightarrow p_\gamma=\dfrac {E_\gamma}{c}=\dfrac {h \nu_\gamma}{c}=\dfrac {h}{\lambda_\gamma}$$
So the idea that the photon is really a particle is starting to gather evidence, but people were not convinced about it until Compton did his work.

## What is Compton scattering?

It's shining x-rays to atom but this time very energetic x-rays

> X-rays. $100 \; \text{ev}$   to $100 \; \text{Kev}$

What are the energies, of binding energies of electron in atom? $10 \; \text{ev} \; 13\text{ev}$ for $H_2$. So x-rays can release election easily.

> Compton Scattering $\equiv$  photon scattering on electrons that are "virtually" free.

This work showed a violation of classical Thompson scattering

-  So the reason Compton scattering did the job and physicists. finally admitted the photon was a particle is that he made it look-like particle collision of a photon with an electron it could calculate and measure and treat the photon like a particle hit electron.

Thompson scattering



If it's low frequency wave, low energy electron. Magnetic Field does very little because thus electron does not move very fast $\Rightarrow$ The velocity is being small $\Rightarrow$ The Lorentz force is very Small.

But the electric field shakes the electron. And as election is being shaken, it's accelerating and therefore it radiates itself.

$$\dfrac {d\overbrace{\sigma}^{\text{cross section}}}{d\Omega}=\underbrace {\dfrac{e^2}{mc^2}\dfrac{1}{2}(1+\cos^2\theta)}_{\text{Units of area per solid angle}} \;\; \text{solid angle}\equiv \text{no unit} \tag{*}$$


So imagine solid angle and multiply by this cross section, you give area and you know how many photons you get. So $(*)$  represents area and then area represents energy. So $(*)$ basically, this is a plot of intensity of the radiation.

But the most important thing, not only this is not accurate when the photon is high energy, the thing that's pretty wrong.  Outgoing photon: has the same frequency as the original wave. <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">Now you have high energy.</mark>

> Couple observation: Treat a photon as a particle

you should analyze the collision using energy and momentum conservation.



Its a relativistic calculation.

<mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">Exercise: Show The photon can not be absorbed by the electron. (Hint: you should use relativistic and show it.  It's not consistent with energy and momentum conservation)</mark>

So photon is going lose energg ($\lambda_f>\lambda_i$). 

## What's the difference?

Show $$\lambda_f=\lambda_i +\dfrac {h}{m_ec^2}(1-\cos\theta) \tag{1}$$

The coefficient of $(1-\cos\theta)$ must be have length unit. And the only particle, you have is electron and this electron has some length (Compton wave length). And $(1)$ is correct for less momentum and energy.

## Experiment (done by Compton)





## References:
- From 12 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 12 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:



