#Physics #Quantum #Barton 

# de Broglie's proposal
Created:2023-09-2 07-00

In 1924, the photon as a particle is clear, and the photon is also wave. de Brogle has  a brilliant insight. He said if This is supposed the photon is wave and particle. If they are dualed with respect to each other, the both descriptions are in different regime

- wave attributes because it interferes and describe by wave
- Particle attributes because definite amount  of energy it comes. in packet, They cannot broken into other things.
> <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">This could be a more general property said de Broglie</mark>


So de Broglie did a fundamental step almost as important as Schrodinger. <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">He claimed that all matter particles behave as wave as well, not just photon</mark>

But that is quite interesting because in quantum mechanics you have the photon, and it's particle and now associated to a wave. Now you may say: OK, it's electromagnetic wave. But No. in quantum mechanics. it's the probability amplitude.

Those are the numbers, we tracked in the Mach-Zender interferometer. We didn't track the wave or a single photon. The wave was a wave of probability amplitude. Something they didn't knowed at all about yet at that time.

<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">But what is left unsaid here is yes, you have a waves but a wave of what?</mark> .I've already told about probability amplitude. It's very strange the fundamental equation for a ware that represents a particle is not an electric field or a sound wave. It's for all of them. They are a probability wave

very verf surprising

> Photon:  particle $f$



This is particle wave duality. <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">de Broglie Said: It's universal for all particles. </mark>and the name is " <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">matter wave!</mark>" wave of what? The answer cames latter. They are wave of <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">probability amplitude</mark>.

## References:
- From 13 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 13 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses

## Related:



