#Physics #Quantum #entanglement

# Entanglement
Created:2023-08-24 23-46

We talk about entanglement when we have two non-interacting particles. You don't need a strong interaction between particles to produce entanglement. The particles can be totally non-interacting.

particle 1:  $|u_1\rangle, \; |u_2\rangle$
particle 2:  $|v_1\rangle, \; |v_2\rangle$

state of two particles:
$$(\alpha_1 |u_1\rangle + \alpha_2 |u_2\rangle)\otimes(\beta_1 |v_1\rangle)+\beta_2 |v_2\rangle) = 4\; terms$$

I could try to write a different state now
$$|u_1\rangle \otimes |v_1\rangle + |u_2\rangle \otimes |v_2\rangle \neq (\quad)_1 \otimes(\quad)_2$$

This state is un-factorizable.

It's funny state in which you can not say this quantum state can be described. By telling what the first particle is doing and what the second particle is doing.

What the first particle is doing depends on the second and what the second is doing depends on the first. This is an entanglement state

Consider two spins $\dfrac {1}{2}$ Particles. It's called Alice and Bob
$$|\uparrow,Z\rangle_1 \otimes |\downarrow,Z\rangle_2 \; + |\downarrow,Z\rangle_1 \otimes |\uparrow,Z\rangle_2 \tag{*}$$

Suppose Bob goes along and measures his spin. and he finds his spin $\downarrow$. At this moment the whole state collapses in to first term in $(*)$. So if Alice be in another galaxy. At that instant looks at her spin, she will find it's up before light has had time to get her there instantaneously.

People were sure somehow this violates special relativity.
It doesn't. You somehow when you think about this carefully, You can't quite send information but the collapse is instantaneous in QM.

somehow Bob and Alice can not communicate information by sharing this entanglement pair, but it's an intersting thing why it cannot happen.

Einstein again objected to this. consider 1000 copies. And what happening is that some of your entangled pairs are this $|\uparrow,Z\rangle_1 \otimes |\downarrow,Z\rangle_2$ and some of them that $|\downarrow,Z\rangle_1 \otimes |\uparrow,Z\rangle_2$

<mark style="background: #FF2C61;">But John Bell in 1964 said:</mark>

If Bob and Alice can measure in three different directions, They will find correlations, that are impossible to explain with classical physics.

The kind of correlations that appear in entangled states are very subtle and pretty difficult to disentangle.

It somehow violates classical notions, but in a very subtle way.



## References:
- From 6 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 6 prof.Barton- MIT courses
## Related:



