#Physics #Quantum #Barton #plunck_constant #Compton

# Units of $h$ and Compton wavelength of particles 
Created:2024-01-03 21-23

Remember $\hbar c=200 Mev.fm$ 

## Units of h
> $$[h] = \dfrac {[E]}{[V]} = \dfrac {ML^2/T^2}{T}= \dfrac {ML^2}{T} = LM \dfrac {L}{T} = [r][p]=[L]$$

That's why when people talk about a particle of spin $\dfrac {1}{2}$. They say the angular momentum is $\dfrac {1}{2}$.

With every constant, we can introduce new quantity:
> $$[h]=[r][p]$$

Now consider a particle with mass m. We can associat a length to it. How?  like rah $r=\dfrac {h}{p}$ is de Brogle wave length. But it's another way.

Suppose this particle is just not moving and you have the momentum. What's going on here? Think of it at rest and than you say. you can still construct a length
$$r=\dfrac {[h]}{[p]} \rightarrow \dfrac {[h]}{[mc]}$$

> Compton wavelength of the particle $\neq$ de Brogle wavelength

you don't have to tell me what's the momentum. you know just the mass and it has a length associated to it.

Why would it be important? It will be important in 2 different ways, through an experiment and through a thought experiment.

I have this particle, has a mass $M$. I use the speed of light. So with that mass, I can associate to this particle a rest energy ($mc^2$). And then I could ask, what is the wavelength of a photon that has the same energy as the rest energy of this particle?

So you translate the question into a question of a length. Once you have some energy, you have natural length.

What is the wavelength of a photon whose energy is the rest mass of a particle

$$\underbrace {m}_{\text{rest mass}}c^2=\underbrace{E}_{\text{Energy of the photon}}=h\nu=\dfrac {hc}{\lambda}\Rightarrow\underbrace{\lambda}_{l_c(m)}=\dfrac{h}{mc}$$
You think of a particle, you have a Compton wavelength and that Compton wavelength is the wavelength of light that has that rest energy.

And that actually has experimental implications in high energy particle physics:

Because you have an electron and it has a Compton wavelength and you shine a photon that has that size, that photon is carrying as much energy as the rest energy of the election. And in particle theory and quantum field theory, particles can be created and destroyed, so this photon maybe can do somethings and create more particles out of this electron particle creation could start happening. So it will be difficult to isolate a particle to a size smaller than its Compton wavelength. Because the photon could do such damage to the particle by creating new particles or doing other things to it.

$$l_c(e)=\dfrac {h}{m_ec}=\dfrac {2\pi\hbar c}{m_ec^2}=\dfrac {2\pi(197.33 \; \text{Mev.fm})}{0.511 \; \text{Mev}}=2426\;\text{fm}=2.426 \;\text{pm}=0.0024 \; \text{nm}$$
Picometer is kind of natural wavelength ($1$ pm= $10^{-12} m$)
>Bohr radius = 50 Picometer.

$l_c(e)$is still much bigger than the size of nucleus, The nucleus is a few fermies ($1.7 \; \text{fm}$) . A single  proton is about a fermi big. 

And nucleus grow slowly, so you can have a big nucleus with 200 particles maybe of a radius of $7$ or $8$ fermi. So $l_c(e)$ is still a lot bigger: and it's very interesting quantity
## References:
- From 11 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 11 prof.Barton- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses

## Related:






