#Physics #Barton #matter_wave #wave_function #Quantum 
#  The frequency of a matter wave
Created:2023-09-04 10-34
We spoke about $\lambda$. What is the frequency of a matter waves?
de Broglie did the answer:
$$p=\hbar k$$
$$E=\hbar \omega$$
$$\therefore \quad\omega=\dfrac {E}{\hbar}$$
And complete the story.

$$V_{\text {phase}}=\dfrac {\omega}{K}=\dfrac {E}{P}\overset{\text {non relatvisitic}}{=} \dfrac {\dfrac {1}{2}mV^2}{mV}=\dfrac {1}{2}V$$
It's the velocity in which the nodes and maxima of this plane wie

So If I have a particle with $E,\; p$, $E= \dfrac {1}{2}mv^2$, $p=mv$. and now seems the wave is moving half the speed of particle!

$$\text{!That looks pretty bad!}$$

## What's going on? 
###  Phase velocity is not meaningful,
This is the usual story with waves. If the wave itself doesn't a plane wave, carries no real information. It's not a signal. So many times when you try to represent the particle or a little bit of information traveling representing it with a <mark style="background: #2BE611A6;">plane wave</mark> is actually wrong. <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">You have to represent it with a wave packet</mark>

$$V_{\text{phase}} = \dfrac {1}{2}V$$
- This wave is very strange
- phase velocity isnot very meaningful physically

## What's meaningful? 
###  group velocity is meaningful

$$V_{\text{group}}= \dfrac {d\omega}{dk}|_k=\dfrac {dE}{dp}=\dfrac {d}{dp}(\dfrac {p^2}{2m})=V$$

And This equality is the reason people did believe de Broglie. Actually it's true relativistically as well. Put $p$ and $E$ relativistically and this answer comes out exactly the same.


## Conclustion


* <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">$\Psi$ ave not directly measureable.</mark> Because if you had a quantity for which you could measure like a sound wave, they should agree between different observables. $\Psi$ is not directly measurable not all of $\Psi$ can be measured. Some of $\Psi$ can be measured. (9:28) and you are already heard the hints of that. Because we said any number that you multiply, you can not measure it and in the phase that you multiply you can not measure it: So Complex number can't be measured.

* <mark style="background: #FF2C61;">They are not Galilian invariant.</mark>



If $S$ and $S'$ agreed, this wave function would have a simpler transformation law with a wave length is conserve. de Broglie waves are not like normal matter waves That propagate in a medium or simple.

The Frequency of a matter wave

We spoke about 1. What is the frequency of a maller wars?

p= K k

de Broglie did answer:

Eshwas wa If ampletthesting

K is magnitiude of E

## References:
-  From 17 my notes- Ryman notebook
- lecture 17 prof.Barton- Lecture 4 PDF file- Quantum mechanics I- MIT courses
## Related:



